communities: Add docs for submitting to a community (#12)
CERNDocumentServer/docs-cds-rdm: docs/communities/submit.md

# Submit to a community

> When you are uploading a record, you can submit it for review to a community. Communities may have their own metadata requirements and review workflows. This page explains what happens during submission, how to handle metadata issues, and how to manage community membership for your records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you are uploading a record, it needs to be reviewed by a community. Communities may have their own metadata requirements and review workflows. This page explains what happens during submission, how to handle metadata issues, and how to manage community membership for your records.
```
we require communities, so it is not optional

## Where should I submit?

If you are unsure which community to submit to, the table below covers the most common cases:

| Your record | Recommended community |
|---|---|
| Publication, preprint, thesis, or conference paper authored at or in collaboration with CERN | [CERN Research](https://repository.cern/communities/cern-research) |
| Internal CERN report, note, or technical document | The relevant experiment or department community, if one exists |

> | Dataset or software produced as part of a CERN experiment | The relevant experiment community |

Reviewer: here we should probably also add that if your community does not exist, it is probably still in legacy CDS and will be gradually migrated, with link to migration page - to avoid confusion of people looking in wrong system

You can always submit to more than one community if the record fits multiple scopes. See [Multiple communities](#multiple-communities) below.

!!! tip

    Start your upload from within a community by clicking **New upload** button on the community page. This pre-selects the community in the deposit form.

## Metadata checks

Before a record can be accepted into a community, CDS checks that the record's metadata meets the community's requirements. These checks run automatically when you submit.

![Metadata Check](./images/metadata_checks.png)

If any required fields are missing or invalid, you will see the list of issues that must be resolved before the submission can proceed as shown.

> ## Related identifiers

Reviewer: does this section belong to community part?

Reviewer 2: +1, maybe move to the deposit upload page?

Common relationships to declare:

| Situation | Relation type to use |
|---|---|
| This record is a preprint; a published version exists elsewhere | `IsVersionOf` (this record) → journal DOI |
| This record is the published version; a preprint exists | `HasVersion` (this record) → preprint DOI |
| A new version of this record exists | `IsPreviousVersionOf` → new version DOI |
| This record supersedes an older version | `IsNewVersionOf` → old version DOI |
| This record is a dataset used by a paper | `IsSupplementTo` → paper DOI |

To add a related identifier, open the deposit form, scroll to the **Related works** section, and enter the identifier (DOI, arXiv ID, handle, etc.) along with the appropriate relation type.

![Related identifiers](./images/related_identifiers.png)

For a full list of supported relation types and detailed guidance, see the [DataCite documentation on connecting related works](https://support.datacite.org/docs/connecting-to-works).

## Multiple communities

> You can submit the same record to more than one community. Each submission is independent: a record can be accepted by one community while still under review in another.

Reviewer 2: Clarify here that this only applies after publishing to an initial community. as explicitly as possible

To submit to an additional community after the record is already published:

1. Open the record's page.
2. Navigate to the Communities Panel (on computers, it's on the right; on phones/tablets, scroll down to the bottom of the page).
![Community Panel](./images/community_panel.png)

3. In the dropdown menu, select **Submit to community**.
4. Search for and select the community you want to submit to.
5. Add an optional message for the community curators and confirm the submission.

![Community Dialog Box](./images/community_dialog_box.png)

!!! note

    Each community has its own review process. Submitting to multiple communities means each community's curators will independently review and decide on your record.

> ## Removing from community

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Removing from a community
```

> You can remove a record from a community if you no longer want it listed there, or if the community no longer fits the record's scope.

Reviewer: not true anymore, you can't remove it :) we blocked that with the last deployment - which makes sense since we require community to submit. I would put a link to support instead

To remove a record from a community:

1. Open the record's page.
2. Navigate to the Communities Panel (on computers, it's on the right; on phones/tablets, scroll down to the bottom of the page).
3. In the dropdown menu, select **Manage communities**.
4. Click **Remove** and confirm the removal.

Removal is allowed in the following situations:

- The record has been accepted into the community and you are the record owner.
- The community curator removes the record from their community.

> - A CDS administrator removes the record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

shhhh....

!!! warning

    Removing a record from a community does not delete the record itself. The record remains published and accessible via its DOI and direct URL. Only the community association is removed.

If a submission is still under review (not yet accepted), you can withdraw it instead of removing it:

1. Go to [your requests dashboard](https://repository.cern/me/requests), or click the inbox icon at the top right of any page.
2. Find the submission you wish to withdraw in the list of requests.
3. Click the **Cancel** button next to the relevant submission.

!!! tip

    If you open the individual request page, you'll also find a **Cancel** button in the top right corner for quick access.

---

## CERN Research

> [**CERN Research**](https://repository.cern/communities/cern-research) is the one of the primary communities for storing scientific output produced at or in collaboration with CERN. It is intended for peer-reviewed publications, preprints, conference papers, theses, and other research outputs directly associated with CERN's scientific programme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**CERN Research**](https://repository.cern/communities/cern-research) is the one of the primary communities for storing scientific output produced at or in collaboration with CERN. It is intended for peer-reviewed publications, preprints, conference papers, theses, and other research outputs
```

![CERN Research](./images/cern_research.png)

### Who should submit

You should submit to CERN Research if your record is:

> - A publication or preprint authored by CERN staff, fellows, or associates.

Reviewer: we didn't finalise the decisions yet for all these resource type you list here. Please leave thesis for now
